npm install -g @oracle/ojet-cli -- install command line interface

For example, the following command will create a web application in the web-app-navbar directory using the web version of the navbar template:

ojet create web-app-navbar --template=navbar

package.json - Defines npm dependencies and project metadata.

Use the Oracle JET command-line interface (CLI) to build a development version of your web application before serving it to a browser. This step is optional.

Change to the application’s root directory and use the ojet build command to build your application.

ojet build 

Use "ojet serve" to run your web application in a local web server for testing and debugging. 


The Oracle JET hooks system defines various script trigger points, also called hook points, that allow you to customize the create, build, serve and restore workflow across the various command-line interface processes. Customization relies on script files and the script code that you want to trigger for a particular hook point.

after_app_create - This hook point triggers the script with the default name after_app_create.js immediately after the tooling concludes the create application process. A script for this hook point can be used with a web application or a hybrid mobile application.

after_app_restore - This hook point triggers the script with the default name after_app_restore.js immediately after the tooling concludes the restore application process. A script for this hook point can be used with a web application or a hybrid mobile application. 

before_build - This hook point triggers the script with the default name before_build.js immediately before the tooling initiates the build process.

before_release_build -  This hook point triggers the script with the default name before_release_build.js

ojet build -- before_build -- build process copies the libraries into web folder -- after_build
ojet server -- before build -- build process -- after_build -- before serve -- serve process - serve process connects to and watches the app -- after serve